README.md, before:

Project title
================
by Sarah Winne

## Summary

Write-up of your project and findings go here. Think of this as the text
of your presentation. The length should be roughly 5 minutes when read
out loud. Although pacing varies, a 5-minute speech is roughly 750
words. To use the word count addin, select the text you want to count
the words of (probably this is the Summary section of this document, go
to Addins, and select the `Word count` addin). This addin counts words
using two different algorithms, but the results should be similar and as
long as you’re in the ballpark of 750 words, you’re good! The addin will
ignore code chunks and only count the words in prose.

You can also load your data here and present any analysis results /
plots, but I strongly urge you to keep that to a minimum (maybe only the
most important graphic, if you have one you can choose). And make sure
to hide your code with `echo = FALSE` unless the point you are trying to
make is about the code itself. Your results with proper output and
graphics go in your presentation, this space is for a brief summary of
your project.

## Presentation

My presentation can be found [here](presentation/presentation.html).

## Data

Langer, Lars, 2023, “Project Gutenberg creative literature life
circumstance & work metadata collection”,
<https://doi.org/10.7910/DVN/7POSNW>, Harvard Dataverse, V2,
UNF:6:WFz+c8P5K2WApDFQRc+RNw== \[fileUNF\], Accessed March 9, 2024

## References

List any references here. You should, at a minimum, list your data
source.

Langer, Lars, 2023, “Project Gutenberg creative literature life
circumstance & work metadata collection”,
<https://doi.org/10.7910/DVN/7POSNW>, Harvard Dataverse, V2,
UNF:6:WFz+c8P5K2WApDFQRc+RNw== \[fileUNF\], Accessed March 9, 2024

Commit message:

Beginning of summary, more graphs

README.md, after:

Lexical Richness Over The 17-20th Centuries
================
by Sarah Winne

## Summary

A point to be highlighted before beginning, is that lexical richness, or
variety of vocabulary, does not directly correlate to a good quality
book. There are many well written books with a simple vocabulary, as
well as ones with large vocabularies.

Basically, the form of literature, whether the author was a parent, and
what decade or century they published in were the most helpful for
predicting lexical richness. Depending on the forms, lexical richness
went up a few hundread of varying amounts. If they had no children, it
was estimated to go down about 17.39, and for every increase in decade,
it went down by about 1.26. So while there aren’t incredibly significant
negative changes, over time lexical richness did go down. The decrease
is more apparent if you focus on the 19th-20th centuries, as during the
17th-18th lexical richness stays pretty constant. There is the fact that
the dataset from Project Gutenberg has fewer books from that time
period, as compared to the 19th-20th centuries.

While the average and median lexical richness do decrease more over the
19th-20th centuries, there is also a wider range of lexical richnesses
in both the positive and negative directions.

Write-up of your project and findings go here. Think of this as the text
of your presentation. Roughly 750 words. As long as you’re in the
ballpark of 750 words, you’re good! Ignore code chunks and only count
the words in prose. If using code, only one most important.

## Presentation

My presentation can be found [here](presentation/presentation.html).

## Data

Langer, Lars, 2023, “Project Gutenberg creative literature life
circumstance & work metadata collection”,
<https://doi.org/10.7910/DVN/7POSNW>, Harvard Dataverse, V2,
UNF:6:WFz+c8P5K2WApDFQRc+RNw== \[fileUNF\], Accessed March 9, 2024

## References

Langer, Lars, 2023, “Project Gutenberg creative literature life
circumstance & work metadata collection”,
<https://doi.org/10.7910/DVN/7POSNW>, Harvard Dataverse, V2,
UNF:6:WFz+c8P5K2WApDFQRc+RNw== \[fileUNF\], Accessed March 9, 2024
