Lexical Richness Over The 17th-20th Centuries
================
by Sarah Winne

## Summary

A point to be highlighted before beginning, is that having high lexical
richness, or a wide variety of vocabulary, does not directly correlate
to a good quality book. In the same way, a smaller vocabulary, or less
lexical richness, does not automatically mean low quality writing. There
are many well written books with a simple vocabulary, as well as some
books with large vocabularies being a nightmare to suffer through.
Examples of good books on either side of the spectrum would be books
like “To Kill a Mockingbird” or “Of Mice and Men”, with simpler
vocabularies, while books like “Moby-Dick” and “Narrative of the Life of
Frederick Douglass” have much more extensive vocabularies. Looking at
the potential decline of lexical richness is not to say quality of
writing has decreased, simply the use of a wider vocabulary having
decreased.

The dataset used is from the Gutenberg Project, an online archive of
e-books. They are mainly older works that have expired copyrights in the
US, so it can be kept free. A few limitations of the dataset that come
from this would first be the lack of newer works. The dataset has less
books from the mid and late 1900’s than the beginning of the 1900’s.
There are also much fewer 17th-18th century works than 19th-20th century
works. However, the dataset from the Gutenberg Project is large enough
to ask the question of how lexical richness has changed over the past
few centuries.

Overall, there is a decreasing average lexical richness in the e-books
in the Gutenberg Project as they progress towards works published in the
20th century. Interestingly, this trend is not representative of the
works if the dataset is split in the middle.

Over the 17th-18th century books, which do have a much smaller sample
size, the change in lexical richness is very small throughout. There was
a small increase in both mean and median lexical richnesses over the
17th-18th century selections. However, into the 19th century it begins
dropping visibly as the sample size increases. This trend continues into
the 20th century collection, dropping more significantly in both mean
and medians. However, the difference was more significant in means,
while medians were slightly more of a stable decrease.

While the average and median lexical richness do decrease more over the
19th-20th centuries, there is also a wider range of lexical richness in
both the positive and negative directions. This is in part because of
how many more books are published in the 19th-20th centuries. There are
many more books with lower lexical richness, but also more with higher
richness. It also needs to be remembered that the 20th century is
technically ‘missing’ values from the copyrights having not expired for
most of the works of that time.

In the end, the most accurate predictive model found takes into account
the form of literature, whether the author was a parent, and what decade
or century they published in. These were the most helpful for predicting
lexical richness. Depending on the form of literature, lexical richness
went up a few hundred of varying amounts, with lyric arts having the
largest predicted increase. If they had no children, it was estimated to
go down about 17.39, and for every increase in decade, it went down by
about 1.26. So while there aren’t incredibly significant negative
changes, over time lexical richness did go down.

Part of how the lexical richness decreases over time, despite apparently
seeing only increases with most variables, or only decreases in small
amounts, has to do with how proportions of literature forms change over
time. For example, it can be seen that the proportion of lyric arts as a
literature form decreases going from the 17th to 20th centuries.

The decrease in lexical richness is more apparent if you focus on the
19th-20th centuries, as during the 17th-18th lexical richness stays
pretty constant. It should be remembered that the dataset from Project
Gutenberg has fewer books from that time period, as compared to the
19th-20th centuries.

## Presentation

My presentation can be found [here](presentation/presentation.html).

## Data

Langer, Lars, 2023, “Project Gutenberg creative literature life
circumstance & work metadata collection”,
<https://doi.org/10.7910/DVN/7POSNW>, Harvard Dataverse, V2,
UNF:6:WFz+c8P5K2WApDFQRc+RNw== \[fileUNF\], Accessed March 9, 2024

## References

Langer, Lars, 2023, “Project Gutenberg creative literature life
circumstance & work metadata collection”,
<https://doi.org/10.7910/DVN/7POSNW>, Harvard Dataverse, V2,
UNF:6:WFz+c8P5K2WApDFQRc+RNw== \[fileUNF\], Accessed March 9, 2024
